Implement full node discovery (#799)
celestiaorg/celestia-node: docs/adr/adr-008-p2p-discovery.md

# ADR #008: Celestia-Node Full Node Discovery

## Changelog

- 2022.07.04 - discovery data structure

## Authors

@vgonkivs

> ## P2P Full Node Discovery

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Context

This ADR is intended to describe p2p full node discovery in celestia node. 
P2P discovery helps for light and full nodes to find other full nodes on the network at specified topic(`full`).
As soon as full node is found and connection is established with it, then it will be added to an internal store.
## Decision

- https://github.com/celestiaorg/celestia-node/issues/599

## Detailed design
```go
// discovery combines advertise and discover services and allows to store discovered nodes.
type discovery struct {
	// storage where all discovered and active peers are saved.
	set  *limitedSet
	// libp2p.Host allows to connect to discovered peers.
	host host.Host
	// libp2p.Discovery allows to advertise and discover peers.
	disc core.Discovery
}

// discoverer used to protect light nodes of being advertised as they support only peer discovery.
type discoverer interface {
    findPeers(ctx context.Context)
}
```

> ## Full Nodes behavior:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Full Nodes behavior:
```

> 1. Node starts advertising itself at `full` topic after system boots up in order to be found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Node starts advertising itself over DHT at `full` namespace after the system boots up in order to be found.
```

> 2. Node starts finding other full nodes to be able to establish a connection with them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Node starts finding other full nodes to be able to join the Full Node network.
```

> 3. As soon as a new peer is found, node will try to establish a connection with it. In case if the connection is successful
> node will Tag Peer and add to the internal storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. As soon as a new peer is found, the node will try to establish a connection with it. In case the connection is successful
the node will Tag Peer and add to the internal storage.
```

Reviewer: WDYM by internal storage btw? We don't store connections on disk

> ## Light Nodes behavior:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Light Nodes behavior:
```

> 1. Node starts finding full nodes to be able to establish a connection with them using `discoverer` interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Node starts finding full nodes over DHT at "full" namespace using the `discoverer` interface.
```

> 2. As soon as a new peer is found, node will try to establish a connection with it. In case if the connection is successful
>    node will Tag Peer and add to the internal storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. As soon as a new peer is found, the node will try to establish a connection with it. In case the connection is successful
   the node will Tag Peer and add to the internal storage.
```

Reviewer: Same question, also worth explaining what we mean by Tag

Tagging allows to protect peer from being killed by ConnManager.

![discovery](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/40579846/177183260-92d1c390-928b-4c06-9516-24afea94d1f1.png)

## Status

> Proposed

Reviewer: Just a small reminder to change to merged once we all approve this.

Author: sure. thanks for pointing out.

	disc core.Discovery
}

// limitedSet is a thread safe set of peers with given limit.
// Inspired by libp2p peer.Set but extended with Remove method.
type limitedSet struct {
    lk sync.RWMutex
    ps map[peer.ID]struct{}

    limit int
}
```
### Full Nodes behavior:
1. Node starts advertising itself over DHT at `full` namespace after the system boots up in order to be found.
2. Node starts finding other full nodes to be able to join the Full Node network.
3. As soon as a new peer is found, the node will try to establish a connection with it. In case the connection is successful
the node will call [Tag Peer](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-core/blob/525a0b13017263bde889a3295fa2e4212d7af8c5/connmgr/manager.go#L35) and add peer to the peer set.

### Light Nodes behavior:
1. Node starts finding full nodes over DHT at `full` namespace using the `discoverer` interface.
2. As soon as a new peer is found, the node will try to establish a connection with it. In case the connection is successful
   the node will call [Tag Peer](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-core/blob/525a0b13017263bde889a3295fa2e4212d7af8c5/connmgr/manager.go#L35) and add peer to the peer set.

> *NOTE* Bridge node behaves the same as Full nodes.

Reviewer: Full Node behavior includes both advertising and discovering and bridge behaves the same

# ADR #008: Celestia-Node Full Node Discovery

## Changelog

- 2022.07.04 - discovery data structure

## Authors

@vgonkivs

## Context

This ADR is intended to describe p2p full node discovery in celestia node. 

> P2P discovery helps for light and full nodes to find other full nodes on the network at specified topic(`full`).
> As soon as full node is found and connection is established with it, then it will be added to a set of peers(limitedSet).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
P2P discovery helps light and full nodes to find other full nodes on the network at the specified topic(`full`).
As soon as a full node is found and connection is established with it, then it(full node) will be added to a set of peers(limitedSet).
```
```suggestion
P2P discovery helps for light and full nodes to find other full nodes on the network at specified topic(`full`).
As soon as full node is found and connection is established with it, then it will be added to a set of peers(limitedSet).
```
```suggestion
P2P discovery helps for light and full nodes to find other full nodes on the network at specified topic(`full`).
As soon as full node is found and connection is established with it, then it will be added to a set of peers(limitedSet).
```

Reviewer 2: Please elaborate more on what is the `limitedSet`. Is it `peersLimit`? 🧐

## Decision

- https://github.com/celestiaorg/celestia-node/issues/599

## Detailed design
```go
// peersLimit is max amount of peers that will be discovered.
peersLimit = 3

// discovery combines advertise and discover services and allows to store discovered nodes.
type discovery struct {
	// storage where all discovered and active peers are saved.
	set  *limitedSet
	// libp2p.Host allows to connect to discovered peers.
	host host.Host
	// libp2p.Discovery allows to advertise and discover peers.
	disc core.Discovery
}

// discoverer used to protect light nodes of being advertised as they support only peer discovery.
type discoverer interface {
    findPeers(ctx context.Context)
}

// limitedSet is a thread safe set of peers with given limit.
// Inspired by libp2p peer.Set but extended with Remove method.
type limitedSet struct {
    lk sync.RWMutex
    ps map[peer.ID]struct{}

    limit int
}
```
### Full Nodes behavior:

> 1. Node starts advertising itself over DHT at `full` namespace after the system boots up in order to be found.
> 2. Node starts finding other full nodes to be able to join the Full Node network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. A Node starts advertising itself over DHT at `full` namespace after the system boots up in order to be found.
2. A Node starts finding other full nodes, so it can be able to join the Full Node network.
```
```suggestion
1. Node starts advertising itself over DHT at `full` namespace after the system boots up in order to be found.
2. Node starts finding other full nodes to be able to join the Full Node network.
```
```suggestion
1. Node starts advertising itself over DHT at `full` namespace after the system boots up in order to be found.
2. Node starts finding other full nodes to be able to join the Full Node network.
```

> 3. As soon as a new peer is found, the node will try to establish a connection with it. In case the connection is successful

Reviewer 2: If we add `in case` of A and describing the outcome of scenario A, then it's good to add a `case` B if the opposite happens (tbe if the connection is not successful)

the node will call [Tag Peer](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-core/blob/525a0b13017263bde889a3295fa2e4212d7af8c5/connmgr/manager.go#L35) and add peer to the peer set.

### Light Nodes behavior:

> 1. Node starts finding full nodes over DHT at `full` namespace using the `discoverer` interface.

Reviewer 2: Some as for full - A Node

2. As soon as a new peer is found, the node will try to establish a connection with it. In case the connection is successful
   the node will call [Tag Peer](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-core/blob/525a0b13017263bde889a3295fa2e4212d7af8c5/connmgr/manager.go#L35) and add peer to the peer set.

*NOTE* Bridge node behaves the same as Full nodes.

> Tagging allows to protect peer from being killed by ConnManager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tagging protects connections from ConnManager trimming/GCing. 
```
